Title: New site and web identity
Logo: {static images/welcome.png}

Hello everyone and welcome to my new site!

Having now finished my Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and Computer
Engineering and 4 years after creating the previous version of my website, I
felt that a change was needed to enhance the connection with my web identify. 
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY --> I feel that the alias 'AlexJF' (which, as you
might have observed, comes from my name Alexandre Jorge Fonseca) is not only
more unique and personal but also more mature and neutral. With 'Revolt' people
might have thought of me as an anarchist or as a somewhat revolted individual
when, in fact, I'm quite peaceful :P.

This new site also provided me with a long sought opportunity to get my hands
dirty with Drupal. I have always wanted to setup a site using this
framework/CMS (not sure what's the best term to describe it really) but
university assignments and exams, other projects and lack of
inspiration/motivation for 'fake site construction' have kept me from doing so.
During the initial planning phase of the website, I considered various CMS
packages and read various reviews and debates. I have had experience with
Joomla, Wordpress and CMS Made Simple (in chronological order) so I was not a
total stranger to the ups and downs of the most popular CMS (albeit things seem
to have changed a lot since I last used them).

In any case, I had never had the opportunity to really dive into the Drupal
framework and this new version 7 seemed to be a particularly good time to do so
with the inclusion of the CCK modules into the core and revised taxonomy
structure. I must say I was not disappointed. Granted, it still seems a little
overwhelming and overengineered (one of the greatest complains I've heard of
the framework) but overall, I'm liking the experience and it starts growing on
you. I have yet had the need to develop a plugin (everything I needed up until
now was already  made) therefore I can't really comment on the ease of
developing for the platform. However, from what I've read and from the code
I've analyzed the flexibility of the system is truly outstanding.

I can, however, attest to the smoothness of Drupal theme development. With base
theme frameworks like [Zen](http://drupal.org/project/zen/) or
[Omega](http://drupal.org/project/omega/) I found that I could concentrate on
what really mattered due to the excellent theme defaults. I ended up going with
the Omega theme framework and was introduced to a concept I had never heard of:
[responsive web design](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responsive_Web_Design). In
a nutshell, this form of web design makes use of a new feature of CSS3 called
media queries that allow you to selectively apply CSS styles based on
conditions such as screen resolution. This gives you much more flexibility on
your designs since you won't have to cater to all screen sizes with a single
stylesheet.

As for the theme I developed, I wanted to make something minimalist but at the
same time esthetically pleasing. I think it turned out alright but it is up to
you as the visitor to judge that.

In any case, this post is getting rather lengthy so I'd better wrap it up. I
hope you enjoy your stay and find something interesting while you're here :)

Regards, Alex
