Title: What's next
Logo: {static images/tap.jpg}

Having finished my BSc back in June, I feel I have now closed another important
chapter in my life. <!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->
Over these past 3 years I met a lot of great people and
reencountered some I had not seen for many years (primary school friends and
teacher for instance), learned and developed valuable skills related to my area
of study, got my driver's license and my own car, had my first contact with the
professional (as opposed to academic) environment not only with an internship
at Caixa Mágica but also with a job shadowing opportunities at DRI, and many
other valuable experiences and events, too many to count.

Last year, during the summer vacations, I started wondering where I would like
to go after finishing my BSc. I could stay in Portugal and just continue in one
of the Master courses offered at IST but I felt I wanted more. Not that IST
isn't a good university, far from it, but I felt I needed to become more
independent and I've always wanted to travel and live somewhere else and
interact with other cultures during a prolonged period of time. To that end, I
started researching some foreign Master degrees related to Computer Science
mainly in Europe and the United States.

I examined a lot of universities and courses but found that most had no or very
small scholarships for Master degrees taken by non-national students resident
on the EU (there were several with offers for Indian students for example). On
those that did indeed offer some kind of scholarship, I found that most
universities either couldn't guarantee it until after you had finished the
course enrollment (thus, should you not be selected for the scholarship, you
would still have to pay the tuition fees since you confirmed enrollment) or had
strict requirements which I couldn't meet at the time of application (such as
already having a thesis proposal backed up by a professor at the target
university or having already graduated). There were also some universities like
KTH in Sweden or Aalto in Finland that didn't have scholarships for EU-students
but these students were exempt from paying tuition fees.

Eventually, I stumbled upon some of the [Erasmus Mundus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasmus_Mundus) (EM) courses. The
Erasmus Programme is the most widely known students-exchange program in Europe.
In this programme, students usually spend one or two semesters on a foreign
university during their BSc or MSc. Erasmus Mundus takes this concept one step
further and allows students to take their entire MSc abroad on some of the most
prestigious European universities. In the end the student gets a double-degree
from the two universities where they studied at. These EM courses also offer 2
different types of scholarship: 500€/month + Tuition Fees for EU students (Type
B) and 1000€/month + Tuition Fees for non-EU students (Type A). The selection
for these scholarships is based on your academic and professional experience as
well as on your application letter and you have the opportunity to cancel your
application should you not be selected for the scholarship. This was exactly
what I was looking for!!

Examining the list of EM courses, I singled out [Erasmus Mundus in Distributed
Computing](http://www.kth.se/en/studies/programmes/master/em/emdc) (EMDC) and 
[NordsecMob](http://nordsecmob.aalto.fi/en/) as being the courses that best catered to my
interests so I applied to both of them with preferred study tracks of UPC/KTH
and Aalto/KTH, respectively. You are eligible for the scholarship as long as
you don't apply to more than 3 EM courses at a time. However, I soon found out
that each application, atleast in Portugal, is quite expensive. With all the
requests for transcripts, certified copies and translations I ended up paying
more than 70€ per application.

In April 2012, I received the results of both applications and I was accepted
in both with a Type B scholarship. I eventually chose EMDC as I find it more
interesting and am now preparing to leave to Barcelona on the 24th August. I
intend to document my experience here in this blog so keep posted! :)
